:title: great week
:date: 2005-05-21 15:08
:slug: 11-great-week

Man, what a great week. I spent a couple of days working with `Donovan
<http://ulaluma.com/pyx/>`__ at his office on a couple of issues: making
`py.test <http://codespeak.net/py/current/doc/test.html>`__ capable of
running Twisted test cases, improving `LivePage <http://www.nevow.com/>`__
event notification, and setting up a BuildBot for their in-house test suite.

Thursday night was the `BayPIGgies <http://www.baypiggies.net/>`__ meeting (a
local Python users group), held at Google's spiffy office complex in mountain
view. I handed off some JavaButton hardware that I'm loaning to Pavel for a
month, and wound up hanging out with `Zooko <http://zooko.com/>`__ for the
rest of the evening, talking about some software licensing ideas he's been
thinking about. We agreed that they need a bit of work, but were still quite
promising, and we were up pretty late arguing about the details. When you
start talking about metalicenses, you know it's getting late.

Friday I spent at HP hanging out with some of the E/Capabilities people. In
the discussion I happened to mention `an essay I'd seen
<http://oblomovka.com/entries/2003/10/13#1066058820>`__ about expectations of
privacy in online spaces, unfortunately I wasn't able to remember the site or
the author in realtime. Of course it turns out that it was written by Danny
O'Brien, whom I met at CodeCon and when we talked to the ZigBee people about
licensing their technology and brands in a way that would make them more
compatible with free-software. Small world.

The afternoon was spent at `Kragen's
<http://lists.canonical.org/pipermail/kragen-tol/2005-May/thread.html>`__
office watching he and Donovan and Mark work on `Wheat
<http://www.wheatfarm.org/>`__. When Tyler showed up we spent about half an
hour talking about newpb could incorporate some of the ideas of his
`web-calculus <http://www.waterken.com/dev/Web/>`__ model. This was really
useful, it sounds like he's addressed most of the problems we've encountered
in building newpb. I think there exists a possibility that we could use his
serialization scheme and (since they're working on making E speak the same
protocol) thus make newpb interoperate with E. *That* would be a nice
accomplishment.
