great week

Man, what a great week. I spent a couple of days working with <a
href="http://ulaluma.com/pyx/">Donovan</a> at his office on a couple of
issues: making <a
href="http://codespeak.net/py/current/doc/test.html">py.test</a> capable of
running Twisted test cases, improving <a
href="http://www.nevow.com/">LivePage</a> event notification, and setting up
a BuildBot for their in-house test suite.

Thursday night was the <a href="http://www.baypiggies.net/">BayPIGgies</a>
meeting (a local Python users group), held at Google's spiffy office complex
in mountain view. I handed off some JavaButton hardware that I'm loaning to
Pavel for a month, and wound up hanging out with <a
href="http://zooko.com/">Zooko</a> for the rest of the evening, talking about
some software licensing ideas he's been thinking about. We agreed that they
need a bit of work, but were still quite promising, and we were up pretty
late arguing about the details. When you start talking about metalicenses,
you know it's getting late.

Friday I spent at HP hanging out with some of the E/Capabilities people. In
the discussion I happened to mention <a
href="http://oblomovka.com/entries/2003/10/13#1066058820">an essay I'd
seen</a> about expectations of privacy in online spaces, unfortunately I
wasn't able to remember the site or the author in realtime. Of course it
turns out that it was written by Danny O'Brien, whom I met at CodeCon and
when we talked to the ZigBee people about licensing their technology and
brands in a way that would make them more compatible with free-software.
Small world.

The afternoon was spent at <a
href="http://lists.canonical.org/pipermail/kragen-tol/2005-May/thread.html">Kragen</a>'s
office watching he and Donovan and Mark work on <a
href="http://www.wheatfarm.org/">Wheat</a>. When Tyler showed up we spent
about half an hour talking about newpb could incorporate some of the ideas of
his <a href="http://www.waterken.com/dev/Web/">web-calculus</a> model. This
was really useful, it sounds like he's addressed most of the problems we've
encountered in building newpb. I think there exists a possibility that we
could use his serialization scheme and (since they're working on making E
speak the same protocol) thus make newpb interoperate with E. <b>That</b>
would be a nice accomplishment.
